[Music]
She collects typewriters and works out
of a tiny house in her backyard. She's a
swifty and Tina Feay super fan. She
rescues Cavalier King Charles Spaniels.
Ladies and gentlemen, introducing and
handily come on down.
Yeah,
I was expecting that game show music to
play a little longer.
One summer day, I noticed a small baby
rabbit in my yard. Now, I've had wild
animals in my yard before, but this was
the first boy who wasn't completely
terrified of me. So, because I am in
marketing, I gave him a name. I named
him Bun. And I thought, could I actually
make friends with Bun? Could he and I
have a relationship of sorts?
Could I get him to maybe take something
from
my hand? Now, I've been in marketing
long enough to see this as a classic
marketing challenge.
Bun is already aware of me.
He's already on my site.
He's on my site.
There we go.
Now, I thought, can I actually move him
through my marketing funnel? Can I get
him to the consideration stage? Could I
maybe convert him? And then maybe that
would reward me with long-term loyalty.
maybe even he'd bring some friends.
And so I thought, I got this. So I
approached Bun the very next day. I kind
of went up to him like a chatbot, you
know, like on a website. And I was like,
"Hey, Bun, welcome to my site. Can I
maybe interest you in something today?
Perhaps a downloadable piece of content
or you know what? Can I get your email
address if we get disconnected?
I I guess he unsubscribed. I was like,
that's okay. First touch is often not a
success, right? We know that as
marketers.
And so I thought approaching him rushing
bun was maybe not the right approach.
Maybe instead what I need to do is
relaunch my campaign, offer him
something, and let him come to me.
And so June 17th, 1100 a.m. I am being
very specific with this time and with
this date. It was a Tuesday because
everybody knows that earlier in the
week, midm morning is the best time to
launch a marketing campaign.
And so that's me right there. That's my
hand. I have the food of bun. It's a
carrot because everybody knows that that
is the traditional food of the rabbit
aside from Nestle's quick, which is the
other food of the rabbit. I'm holding
the carrot bun, as you see, completely
ignoring me. Completely ignore me. I was
like, "That's okay. We'll try this again
the next day. I'm holding out celery.
Maybe he's not in the mood for carrots."
Eventually, I started to notice that Bun
would spend warm summer afternoons. It's
kind of secluded here. He would lounge
in there all throughout the afternoon
kind of like like a royal, you know,
just kind of like riding side saddle,
just kind of hanging out there. And I
thought, all right, carrots didn't work.
Celery didn't work. Maybe I just need to
offer him a lot.
And so I spammed him.
I was like, "Just take something, bun.
Something's got to be of interest."
This massive amount of content. A
terrified bun. Basically, he
unsubscribed. I didn't I didn't see him
for a couple days.
He's like, "I don't know what game
you're playing at, lady."
So, why am I sharing this story with
you? What does BUN have to do with all
of our goals and aspirations here? Why
am I sharing the story with you at all?
It's because I think Bun has everything
to do with our email newsletter
programs. See the thing is I was
thinking about Bun from my objective,
what I wanted from him, what I needed
him to do when the reality was maybe I
just needed to slow down, step back and
think about how might I optimize Bun's
buyer journey on his term. Now you can
substitute donors, volunteers,
employees, almost anything for buyer in
there. It's the same kind of strategy. I
think in marketing we spend a lot of
time thinking how can I get your
attention? Can I break through on
social? Can I just keep emailing you?
Can I just keep offering you something?
Is there a way I can get you to pay
attention to me?
And maybe it's not about can I have your
attention. Maybe instead it's can I earn
your trust? Can I actually maybe take a
slower approach to nurturing our
relationships? Instead of just emailing
and sending as much collateral through
direct mail as we can, instead maybe we
can step back a little bit because this
is exactly what's in the heads of your
donors, employees, volunteers when they
come to your website, to your social
channels. How well do they address what
I care about? Are you building trust
with them? And secondly, do I like them?
Now, it might seem weird to talk about
like in the context of marketing and
reaching prospects and donors and
volunteers and all of it, but I think
it's vastly undervalued in newsletters
and email and marketing in general.
Because here's the thing, friends, this
is not an optimized marketing program. I
think that our email newsletters offer
us a unique opportunity
to actually slow down to take a slower
approach to nurturing. And why am I
focusing on email here and why do I love
email newsletters so much is because
email is the only place where people and
not algorithms are in control. And what
I mean by that is when someone signs up
for your email newsletter, for your
email program, they're raising their
hand and they're saying, "Yes, I want to
hear from you." And that to me is a it's
a it's a special place to be. It's the
holy grail for all of us in marketing.
And so the question for all of us here
is how are we using that email
newsletter? I think when we think about
our email newsletter, we focus so much
on the first part of that word. We think
about what we want to say. We want to
think about what we want to share, what
we want people to download and engage
with. We think about the news. But the
opportunity with an email newsletter is
the second half of that word, which is
the letter. The most important part of
the email newsletter is the letter and
not the news.
Now, I am obsessed with email
newsletters and I've subscribed to a lot
of your email newsletters to try to
decide what I might offer to be of value
to you. And so, I know that I only have
a 30 minute slot here, but you know
what? We're going to reset this.
Just I hope your bladders are empty. Are
they empty?
Yeah. Okay. Empty bladder. It's a 4-hour
master class. Buckle up. I'm kidding.
I'm trying I'm going to give you five
major points in about 22ish minutes or
so. At the end, I'm going to give you a
link to download a full PDF where you
can see the context for a lot of this
and also um get some other ideas and
insights. I'll share that at the very
end. All you'll have to do is um is give
me your email address, your social, your
uh mother's made a name, the name of
your first pet. Okay, that's all. That's
all. Swear.
So, the first thing that I want you to
think about when you think about the
evolution and the future of your own
email newsletter is to think about
assigning an MC hosting uh your email
newsletter. Not just a writer writing
your email newsletter, but think about
an MC.
Now, I subscribe every morning to the
New York Times. And every morning, the
New York Times sends me an email from
this guy, David Leionheart. Now, think
about this for a second. The New York
Times, a major brand, major name
recognition. Why do they have David
writing me every single morning? Because
now I rely on David to tell me what's
what. David is the guy who tells me what
I need to be thinking about that day. He
sets the stage for my day. And in a way,
like when David doesn't show up for a
day, I'm like, "Where's David? Where'd
he go? What happened?"
CB Insights is a market research
company. They do the very same thing.
Every email, every weekday, I get an
email from Anan Sonwal. He sends me an
email from CB Insights and every morning
he starts with, "Hey there."
And then at the very bottom of his email
newsletter after giving me lots of
insights and data research that I need
to run my business, he says,
"He loves me.
He loves me
every single day."
And there's something else that I want
to share with you about this and and in
part his approach I think is what has
led to the success of the email
newsletter for a market research company
because it comes from a single guy who's
telling me about what he's thinking
about that day. He's it's allowed them
to grow the email newsletter
exponentially. But there's another thing
that I want to point out to you is that
this email newsletter comes from
Ananwald.
Anan is the CEO of CB Insights. It
doesn't come from newsletter at it
doesn't come from data at or the one I
really really hate which is do not
reply.
No, no, that's no, we don't do that.
I love the fact that it comes from a nan
and it feels like it actually comes from
him. There are a million ways that
you'll can look to optimize your subject
line. There is no hack to optimizing
that from line. And I believe that the
from line matters way more than your
subject line does, especially in our
business because it's the relationships
that we have with our donors and our
prospects and our employees and our
volunteers that ultimately is what fuels
our business. All right. The second
thing that I think will absolutely fuel
the future of your email newsletter is a
warm, relatable voice. We need to just
put a pillow over the face of anything
with a whiff of dear valued donor. We've
got to just get rid of that totally.
Warren Buffett is an icon of industry,
right? He's the chairman of Birksher
Hathaway. He's well regarded in the
business world in the world period.
Every year Warren Buffett writes a
letter to shareholders and every year
that letter to shareholders gets
distributed to the tens of thousands of
Birkshshire Hathaway shareholders but
also gets written up in um in from news
outlets, right? It gets cut gets lots
and lots of news coverage. I think part
of the reason why we are so anxious to
hear what Warren Buffett feels about the
state of the world, the state of the
economy, the state of business is in
part because of who he is, but also
because of the way it is written. This
letter to shareholders is written in
very simple, accessible, and also
playful terms. If you read it, you get
it. Even if you don't have a sort of
degree in economics, right? He breaks
things down into a very simple,
accessible way and he has a little fun.
You can feel it.
Now, as I said, this goes out to tens of
thousands of shareholders. It gets
written up in lots of different news
outlets. But when Warren sits down to
write that email newsletter, he doesn't
think about the tens of thousands of
shareholders. He thinks about this gal.
This is Warren's sister. Her name is
Doris. And he says,"Doris is smart. She
reads a lot. She doesn't know all that
financial jargon, but she doesn't want
to be treated like a child either." He
says, 'I would try to say on paper what
I'd tell her about the business if we
sat down for an afternoon.
And I think about writing to Doris
almost obsessively. I think it's a
nonprofit superpower. I think it's a
writing superpower. I think it's a
marketing superpower. If we think about
who is our Doris, who are we trying to
attract? It's not readers, it's not a
community, it's one reader. The
experience that your email newsletter
delivers is one reader at one time,
right? There's not there's not a an
entire community opening up your email
newsletter like this like as a group and
they're they're cheering. Although would
that be fantastic?
So, I feel like maybe we should try to
make that happen. Now that I think about
this, it's one reader at one time,
right? One reader, one way of communic
global volunteer program based in New
Jersey. They do a fantastic job with
their email newsletter.
This particular one was written by this
gal. This is Michaela Holgrren. She is
out of St. Paul, Minnesota. And she
shares her experience working with Best
Buddies. She says, "Hey, Anna, I'm
Michaela. I'm a dancer, a speaker, a
model, a daughter, and a friend. I also
have Down syndrome." She tells you a
little bit about her life and her
experience. When I was younger, I was
bullied and left out. Students called me
names and tried to put me in a locker.
Look at the specificity of this. She's
not just saying I was bullied. She's
saying how she was bullied. I couldn't
participate in the school talent show or
be on the gymnastics team. Again, very
specific. You can see it like I'm
starting to imagine a little bit more.
I'm starting to get vested in Michaela's
story. But I'm here to tell you that I
can do so many things. She made history
by becoming the first woman with Down
syndrome to compete in the MissUSA
pageant.
So fantastic because it's a story that's
involving me. And it's not just because
she's saying, "Hey, Ann." It's because
it feels personal. She may be writing to
thousands of people on this email list,
but it feels like she's speaking just to
me. She closes with saying, "Thank you
for choosing to support inclusion. Thank
you for making a difference in my
world." It just feels different. No
ridiculously good writing or marketing
or newsletter ever starts with dear
segment. But yet when I read a lot of
newsletters, it feels like you're
writing to the segment. Write to me.
Tell me what's going on. All right. My
third point here today is Netflix-like
momentum. How do we actually build some
momentum with our email newsletters? I'm
going to share a few quick ways. I could
talk about this again for three hours
and 50 minutes easily, but we're going
to keep it to just a few quick slides.
One way to build momentum is to build
open loops into your email newsletter.
Jax Today is a community nonprofit news
site out of Jacksonville, Florida. They
share news every single day as relates
to the Jacksonville community. But look
at this. Coming up, one less taco spot.
The world needs more taco spots, not
less. Now, if you are part of the
Jacksonville community, wouldn't you
scroll down to find out where is it,
who's closing, who's abandoning us?
How do we not support many more taco
spots?
Think about how can you actually build
that relationship with your reader, even
within the email itself, even within the
individual email. Second way is through
pattern breaks. Again, Jacksonville uh
today does this incredibly well.
Ironically, we are all looking for a
reason not to read when we open an email
newsletter or we open any email at all.
It's like I I'm sure we could all relate
to that, right? You're like just you're
processing email. Like the way that we
are when we're interacting with our
email um inbox is very much like we're
in that kind of processing mode. We just
want to get through it. But ironically,
the more skimable you make your email
newsletter, the more it will be read.
The more skimable you make it, the more
people will interact with it and read
it. Now, there's a whole lot of ways
that we can talk about building momentum
just through your words alone and what
you're writing. But just a few quick
ways to do that. Think about sharp
headlines, right? How do we actually
create bold, sharp headlines that pull
people in, compelling images, ideally
not stock photos, but actual images of
what you do within your communities?
Structure clear copy hierarchy. I know
Joanna Weebi tomorrow is going to talk a
lot more about that, but also G maybe
there's an opportunity to pull in some
reader cameos. One of the things that
Jax Today does super well is they have
an ask Jax today um hashtag and they're
pulling in questions from social and
they're covering it in their email
newsletter. So it becomes this sort of
ecosystem between social media and the
newsletter itself.
Scroll magnets. What I mean by a scroll
magnet is what will get your your reader
to scroll to the very bottom. What can
you deliver on a weekly, monthly,
whenever you publish your email
newsletter basis so that your reader
will start to anticipate that magnet
pulling them toward the bottom. I love
the way that the Animal Refuge League
league of greater Portland does this. At
the bottom of every email newsletter,
they have what they call the photo of
the week. It was National Bow Tie Day.
So, of course, that's worth celebrating
in their community. You know what I
really love about what they're doing?
Yeah,
they're excited.
Big bow tie people back there.
I see you. I feel you.
Another thing I really love though about
this is see that the photo of the week
at the at the top. I was wondering why
did they misspel that?
But do you notice like who's saying it?
Right. It's it's it's
a guinea pig.
Right. Like
get it? It's like a photo of the
So good.
You'll never unhear that.
Never.
All right.
I thought I was going to choke a little
bit on it, but I got through that,
didn't I? I did.
[Applause]
Think about your onboarding experience
that you're you're offering. And for
this, we have to turn to the Greek
philosophers who remind us that you'll
never get a second chance to make a
first impression. The Greek philosopher
Pinterest told me this. You can buy it
on a plaque in his online shop. It's
called um Pinterest.com.
Thought that'd get a bigger laugh.
Yeah. Anyway, anyway,
make sure you're sending a welcome
email. It is so critical. Only 60% of
organizations globally send welcome
emails welcoming someone to your site uh
to your to your newsletter. That key
moment because they generate all of this
great stuff. Four times more opens,
three times more transactions. There is
no one way to do an onboarding um email.
In the downloadable I'll give you at the
end I offer a couple of different ways.
is a one torch orientation, a link to
external housekeeping notes, multi-touch
welcome series, but I want to share with
you what I do on my own email newsletter
to give you a sense of the power of a
nurturing opportunity. So, this is the
when you sign up for my own email
newsletter, I invite you immediately
like tell me a little bit more about
you. 67% of the folks who sign up for my
email newsletter open it. 43% of them
click through. 31% of my subscribers hit
reply. And what are they replying to?
Very, very simple um execution here,
right? The subject line is, "Hey, I have
a question for you." I'm establishing
the tone right away, which is why I'm
using an emoji there. I'm also saying,
"Hi, friend." Right? I'm not saying dear
valued subscriber. I'm saying, "Hey,
friend." I'm establishing the tone, what
they can expect from me right away.
Number two, I'm setting expectations
every other Sunday, every two weeks,
just in case that was confusing.
Now that I think about that, that
doesn't really need to be there. Anyway,
this is what it says right now.
I don't know.
I'm setting expectations. Every other
Sunday, you get new writing, useful
ideas, fresh links, and high-spirited
shenanigans. is direct from me to you.
In the meantime though, I ask a
something very simple. Tell me about
you. What did you hope to learn here?
Why did you subscribe? It just gives me
a lot of intelligence that is specific
to me. How do people find me? Uh what do
they hope to learn from me? What do they
think of me as an expert in? It's just
very helpful in terms of me building
that relationship with my subscriber.
And by the way, when they respond to me
and tell me, I always write back. And
people say to me like, "Doesn't that
take a lot of time?" Yeah, it kind of
does. It's like an hour a week. But do I
have an hour a week to build on
subscriber relationships for the most
key opportunity that I have to connect
with my audience? Heck yes, I do. I
absolutely do. All right. My fifth point
today is to build a bridge to other
assets, not a tower. Cath talked about
this a little while ago, but I think
it's so key when we think about our
email newsletter, don't let it be in a
little silo over here. Integrate it into
everything that you're doing, just like
Jax today does with its social and its
email program. When you go to the
homepage of Think Kuruk County, which is
the economic development agency for
Kuruk County, North Carolina, look at
the buttons that you see on that page.
One is find property, which makes sense.
You're going to go to the economic
development agency because you want to
start a business there and maybe you
want to lease some office space. But
look at the other one here.
Call Larry.
Who's Larry?
What would you do?
Heck yes. Of course you're going to
click that button. So I c I did. I
clicked the button and I called Larry.
This is Larry.
Larry, it turns out, is Lar Larry
Lombardi. He's the executive director of
the econ county economic development
agency. And he picked up the phone. He's
like, "Hello." And I'm like, "Hey,
Larry. What is what's going on here?
I don't know." And it gave me this
invitation to call you. So, I'm calling
you.
Turns out that everything Kuruk County
Economic Development Agency does
throughout everything is featuring
Larry. Now, why did they do this? It's
because Kurt County itself is kind of
folksy. It's kind of homespun. It's a
very communityled
uh community. So, they want you to have
a relationship with Larry. But
especially what I love from a newsletter
standpoint is like guess who writes the
email newsletter?
Larry.
It's not boring either. It's folksy.
It's accessible. It's playful. It's so
much fun. Just like Kuratuk County
itself. But what I also love about it is
that some people are gonna not like
Larry.
You might not like Larry. That's okay.
He just he just owns it right there. So
when I was on the phone with Larry, I
was trying to make conversation because
I didn't know any of this stuff at the
point. I was like, Larry, what's going
on here? And he said, "The reason why
they do this at the Keruk County
Economic Development Agency is because
people know what you do. When they come
to your website, they know what you do.
You have to sell them on who you are. So
powerful.
All right, I have one more thing that I
wanted to share with you.
And I wasn't sure where to put this, so
I just kind of stuck it at the end. It
is absolutely the most absurd landing
page of all time, yet it converts like
gang busters. Now, I'm not saying you
should do this, but I just I'm here to
just
give you some thoughts.
So, here we go. This comes from Orca.
Orca is a brand new energy drink. And
when you go to the Orca website, there's
just a single landing page on the
website. This is what it says. If you
sign up for our email list, we will send
you a picture of our belly buttons.
Oh, yeah. And they're going to try to
sell you their beverage when it's ready.
It's not even It's not even in
production yet.
Would you do this? Raise your hand if
you would do this.
I mean
I mean I'm not saying that you should do
it,
but
I would never do it. All right. I just
want to say that because I'm a very
serious marketer and I would never
I don't know how I got that even.
[Laughter]
Is that insane?
It works though.
All right, so wrapping up real quick.
The most important part of your
newsletter is the letter, not the news.
Make sure you have an MC. Don't let it
come from some nameless, faceless person
within your organization. Make sure you
develop a relatable voice. You want to
make sure that they have a warm
relationship, your subscriber has a warm
relationship with you. Netflix momentum,
story, open loop, scroll magnets, guinea
pig squeaks. You might as well set
expectations and belonging. Build a
bridge, not a tower. Belly buttons
optional.
Thank you so much. Wait a minute. Wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait. What happened?
Aren't you wondering?
This took up my entire summer. What
happened? I had to think about this like
a marketer. again on Bun's terms, not my
terms. Does Bun trust me? I had to ask
myself. But more than that, does he like
me? Are we
having a relationship or is it all just
kind of one way?
I did a lot of research on Bun,
not only through my observation of him,
but also I went deep into research. You
might say I went down a rabbit hole.
I'm sorry.
I started also spending time with Bun,
just kind of observing what was going
on, seeing what I could do to entice
him. Now, remember, my goal is to get
him to take something from me. So, yeah,
I have a pile right there of some
grasses that I picked. And that's some
um arugula that I read is a preferred
bun choice.
So I spent some time July and August
figuring this out. He does like lettuce.
I found out much more than carrots, much
more than celery. And look at how close
Bun is to me at this point. He is
definitely here.
He's here, right? He's he's like giving
it some serious consideration. He is
He's right there with me. And then
three months in,
are you ready?
[Music]
This is
Here we go.
[Music]
Look at him.
[Music]
Yeah.
[Music]
Woo.
All right. Thank you for real this time.
You guys are awesome.
Thank you so much. I promised you a PDF
at the end. You can go here. Can I get
the PDF? Can I get that PDF? Use all
lowercase. No uppercase. I'm just
kidding about the email address.
Nothing. It's just there for the taking
because I care more about my
relationship with you right now than I
do about trying to just give you a giant
platter of vegetables. So, thank you.
So, Oh my god, I didn't know you were
right there. You've been there the whole
time. Was he there the whole time?
All right. Thank you so much.
