[Music]
Hi marketers, this is Dots and welcome
to the marketing leadership podcast.
With me here is Jay Schwedelson, founder
at subjectline.com and one of the most
popular email marketing thought leaders
worldwide. We will discuss grow with
email, the most untapped marketing
strategy. Yes, that is true 20 years
ago. That is true today. Anyway, I know
you guys are ready to do this. So, let's
get it. Jay, welcome. How are you doing?
I'm fired up. I'm excited to be here. I
appreciate the invitation. I love
talking about email. We're going to have
fun.
Yeah. Great, great, great. And it's it's
really an honor having you here. Um,
especially on the email side of things.
So, do you want to start by for those
who don't know you, I think a lot of
people already do, uh, tell us about
yourself, your background and role.
Yeah, sure. Uh, so Jay Schwedson, I have
a few different businesses. I have an
agency about 100 person organization
called Outcome Media. Uh, we do a lot of
uh, demand generation work for business
and consumer marketers. And then we also
have a media company called Guru Events
that puts on really largecale uh,
virtual marketing conferences like Guru
Conference and we also have websites
like subjectline.com that are free tools
for marketer to use to improve their
email marketing. So, we do all sorts of
stuff. Just love getting the word out
there about marketing and in email and
and it's just uh it's always changing.
Everything's always changing.
Yeah, it is. It is. It's true. And uh
honestly, I I you've been you've been do
you are doing a lot. You you have a
great empire, if I will call it that
way. Not maybe not just email marketing,
but somebody uh and you check all the
boxes too in terms of what you need to
have to really have that whole uh empire
in place. But so what's your what's your
vision with with the entire group? Like
what are you trying to change in terms
of the your marketing world?
You know my what I really want to help
the overall market with is to bring more
uh education, free education to
marketers about how to do their jobs.
You know there's 25 million businesses
in the United States
and in almost every one of these
business for example with email I don't
just do email but I do a lot of email.
Almost every business leverages email,
right? And a lot of people say, "Oh, is
email dead or is email legacy?" And
email is
critical to every business, right? And
it's there are little things that you
could do with email that can really
change your performance. And so when
someone says, "Email doesn't work for
me," that frustrates me because it can
work for any marketer of any size. So I
want to bring as much free education to
to the planet uh from the greatest
marketers, brands uh companies in the
world about email marketing through
podcasts, through conferences, through
whatever because I think it can change
every company's uh uh uh engagement and
how they're driving their business just
by doing a few little things
differently. So that's my agenda. That's
my goal.
I like that. Um, usually when you ask
people that kind of question, they'll be
like, "hm, I never thought about that."
But you've got that all figured out. So
that's very good.
Um, so now to the topic here. Um, if
you're listening, we are discussing
email marketing from a very different
lens. Maybe hopefully you might find
some things that you probably didn't
know and hopefully that helps. Now we
are we 2023 is a big year. even 2024
maybe the next couple of years after
that um we've got all this tech coming
out um you know Kajjyp can now see here
and and all these things that people say
we had uh um Barbie and and all that
stuff that happened in the brand and
marketing world and my question is that
um email email marketing is also
evolving in its own right for that as
well so
what are some of the benefits that you
think this whole new information age or
AI age or technology age is um bringing
to marketers on how they should look at
uh email going forward.
You know, basically making you the
futurist at this point,
you know, which let's talk about the
short-term future. You know, what is
2024 going to mean as it relates to
email? And in
the United States, we might be heading
into a difficult economy. Now, why does
that matter? When you head into a
difficult economy, a lot of marketers
are going to see their marketing budgets
shrink a little bit, right? Everyone's
going to be like, "Wow, I need to do
more with less." And when you look at,
for example, social media, um, when you
put things on social media, it's only
going to go to about 10 to 15% of your
network, right? When you go on to
search, it's it's super expensive to
have really good exposure. Uh, in search
or in display, it be really expensive.
But
there's only one channel on the planet
that if you want to communicate to your
entire population of people and not
spend any money pretty much doing it,
the only channel that exists is email.
So what we see historically is when an
economy is not good, okay, or it's
weaker, email becomes more and more
important because it's very nominal cost
and it allows you to reach your entire
population. So marketers turn to email
in difficult economies more than any
other channel. And so what we need to
all do is what are we going to do in
email to stand out to get the most out
of it. So 2024 in my opinion is probably
going to be the biggest year in the
history of email marketing.
Wow. Wow. Wow. Guys, if you're
listening, you better get ready. That
that's that that's that's a very great
one. And I and I think some of the other
questions I'm prepared to ask you here,
we will be diving deep into how we can
take advantage of uh the big year of
2024.
Okay. So, one of it that has been in my
mind for so long is the audience part of
things, right? Um
in search, in social media, we talk
about audiences. There are different
aspects to that. You can get a specal
and even research audiences and stuff
like that. uh but with email uh
audiences are beginning to change. The
nature of audiences are is beginning to
change and I'm talking about the concept
of outbound prospecting. Okay. Um and
developing a a total addressable market
as they call it. Um how does that work
in your own world? How do you get data?
How do you, you know, um, how do you get
intent um, and around whether it's for
B2B is is probably an easy answer with
B2B because a lot of people do it these
days, but you've got some insights on
B2C as well. Uh, that would be great.
But what are some of the ways that
you've used um, data collection or
databases or you know uh, customer
intelligence to build your term audience
and use that for inbound prospecting?
the kind that never bounces, the kind
that gets a lot of replies.
So, it's a great question. So, first
off, you have to always be asking,
meaning that in every area of of your
website, everything that you're doing on
social media, you have to always be
asking people to sign up. Sign up for a
newsletter, sign up for this, sign up
for that. There's one tactic that works
incredibly well that a lot of marketers
think um is annoying, but it works so
well and it's really not annoying. What
do I mean by that is when you go to a
website whether it's uh you're going to
go to a B2B site that maybe it's like a
SAS company selling some kind of
application or you're going to a
consumer website where you're going to
buy some clothing. When you go to any of
these sites, many of the most successful
marketers, the biggest brands do the
same thing, which is they have a popup
contact capture form. You go to the
site, right? And before you can get to
nike.com or Sephora or to Salesforce or
to whatever, it pops up a little window,
right? and it says, "Hey, if you want to
get the 10% discount, give us your email
address." Or, "If you want to get the
seven tips to the best CRM system, give
us your email address." Now, a lot of
marketers listen to this and be like,
"Oh, I don't want to use one of those.
They're annoying. I don't like them, so
I wouldn't use that." Right. But here's
the the gated content, as they call it.
Absolutely. And here's why you need to
use them. For two reasons. Number one,
they work incredibly well. And here's
the data. Uh when someone visits your
site, the first five times they visit
your site, okay? If you have a pop-up
contact capture, you will grab about 9%
of all of those people's information by
utilizing one of those forms. That's a
lot of free contact data that you can
grab.
And the reason you want to do it and not
worry about it annoying somebody is
this. And I'll ask you the question dot.
Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah.
Let's say you go to Nike and it pops up
that form and you're like, "Oh, this
form is annoying." Do you click the
little X and then go on to Nike to buy
your sneakers? Or do you get so offended
by that popup and say, "I hate this
popup." And you leave Nike immediately
and you never come back to the site.
Which one do you do?
That's a very good question. Um, if I if
I have seen it once, I might want to
feel it to see maybe let's see what
happens. But if it's something that and
that happens a lot where it's not very
well done, you constantly get hit with
things like that. Then you just want to
close it out. But I don't think I get so
upset as to leave the site. That has
never happened.
That's right. That's exactly right. You
never get so upset that you actually
leave the site. You close it out, right?
And so who cares? Close it out. You
forget that it was even there. But for a
lot of people, they fill it out. So if
there's one thing I would tell you to
grab the data is do that because you can
grow your database at no cost so easily.
So anyway, that's my long answer.
No, no, no, no, no. I I I love I love
that. I love the sense that we overstate
uh a bounce rate if if we if we try to
conceptualize that and the fact that it
still works, you know. Um however you
nurture that, I guess is then up to you,
right? But um
I you know
there are different uh marketing
influencers these days bastardizing the
concept of uh of of of gated content or
gated forms or stuff like that. But I
guess the the best practice is not
asking for too much information at the
beginning
and then having people to update their
preferences um going forward. Anyway,
100% right.
Yeah. the so email concept. I'm I am a
fan of creative campaigns. Um every
Monday I do my best to share the best uh
um marketing ad campaigns of each year.
I think right now I'm in 2008 and I'm
working my way up. So I I love things
like that. So and I think email doesn't
have to be boring. Email can be creative
from a context content and contextual
perspective. Um, and from your
experience, what are some of the emails
that you've seen that you know users are
like, "Wow, this is really nice. I will
take whatever action you people want me
to take." What are some of those ideas
that you think our listeners can benefit
from with your decades of experience?
So, you know, there's one kind of email
that I think that marketers don't pay
enough attention to that that is
possibly the most important email that
you send that any marketer sends. And
that is, believe it or not, the
autoresponder. When somebody signs up
for anything on your website, whether
they're signing up for a newsletter,
they're buying a product, they're
registering for a webinar, they're
getting a coupon of some kind, they sign
up. And then what do we all do? We send
out an autoresponder that says what? It
says, "Thank you for signing up, right?
Thank you very much." And then we all
move on with our day. But the reason
that that email is the most important
email that you're going to send is not
because it's establishing your brand
identity or any of that nonsense.
You can get that first email opened that
your organization sends to somebody and
they open it. From a technical
perspective, it teaches both your
sending and receiving networks that hey
uh uh this person likes getting email
from you. to the company, right?
No.
And if you open it up, the likelihood of
you staying in that person's inbox goes
up by like a billion%. Because they
opened it and it teaches the inbox they
like the email. So, the reason I'm
telling you this is the best marketers
uh uh the biggest brands like HubSpot
and Wayfair and Amazon and the NFL and
whatever, they all do this one thing,
which is this. When you sign up for
anything they have, they don't just send
you an email that says thank you. They
send you an email that says thank you.
special gift inside. Thank you. You got
to see what's inside this email. They do
something in that subject line that is
so exciting that you have to open up the
email because all you need is the email
to get open. You don't even need them to
click. And if you get that email opened,
you have the you're in that inbox
forever.
And that's why that email is the most
important. And that's what the best
brands focus on.
Yeah. I I think a lot of B2 B2C or D2C
brands get it right a lot. the I was
speaking to so I'm working on a project
um I have never done this in my life
working for a brand in the men's health
um uh sector especially the men's health
the real one you know uh so um he said
10% is the standard I'm happy to give a
10% discount if you sign up for my
newsletter the fact that a business
owner was able to know that I I I think
it shows that there's a big law of
adoption but I think it that needs to
spread around to different um verticals
on the B2B and you know look at the way
we always try to charge first before we
give as companies you know we need to
give more so that we can even get more
um going forward so so that that that is
really really really great if you're
listening guys is the marketing
leadership podcast and I know that
you're enjoying this I'm enjoying this
as well very very insightful uncommon
very impactful ideas um aside from
listening you also get to review. So
please, it doesn't matter what the
review is, we would love a review. It
helps us. It encourages us. It also
encourages the algorithm uh to do that
as well. And for now that we don't have
that many reviews, I will be, you know,
reading a few of the reviews just to
help um inspire us to do that. So here
is one very short is titled Well worth a
listen. Dots. I don't know why they keep
mentioning my name. runs a great podcast
with tremendous insights for marketers.
Um that you know whatever this podcast
gives you might be different for what
you just heard but the great thing is
that we can't know unless you tell us
and if you tell us then we can always um
share that and work on that u feedback.
Before we move on I still have a couple
of questions uh to ask Jay. Uh but I
would like us to go on a very quick
commercial break from our sponsor and
when we come back we'll put Jay through
the dots rapid fire since he's a very
strong man strong individual anyway.
Right.
I'm ready.
Yeah. So um guys in a couple of seconds
we'll be back and then we will resume
the marketing leadership podcast.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
Hey,
[Music]
hey,
hey.
[Music]
Welcome back guys. So like I said I will
be putting J through the dots rapid fire
and it's basically a digital marketing
court of law where we say the truth and
nothing but the truth. So helping God.
That's right.
Last time you said you're ready. I'm
going to give you a chance to say if
you're ready again. Are you ready?
I'm definitely not ready but I'm ready.
There we go. Okay. So what is your best
marketing KPI? I don't want to hear
sales or revenue. Uh I people are going
to be shocked by this but I really want
to get as many email opens as humanly
possible because people focus on oh
clickthroughs or responses whatever but
if you don't get the email open then
nothing else can occur. So I want to get
as many human beings opening the emails
as humanly possible.
You know what I would have sweared on my
life and even the life to come that this
was what you're going to say being the
owner of subjectline.com. Right. That
that's really really on point. Second
question. How long do you use social
media every day? I would doubt not very
much because you're very busy.
Well, no, no, no. So, every morning I'm
going to tell you exactly what I get up
very early. I get up 5 in the morning.
Every morning. Okay. Same.
And I I um go through I spend 15 minutes
on LinkedIn. And what I've decided is a
long time ago uh I can't I don't have
the patience to work on to do stuff on
every social media network. It's out of
control.
So, I do 15 minutes on LinkedIn every
morning. I like a bunch of stuff. I'll
post one thing pretty much every day and
then that's it. I'll come back to it the
next day. But 15 minutes every day. And
by the way, I think it's really valuable
for everybody to do that on LinkedIn.
For me, it's the ultimate social media
network and it has changed my business
by doing that.
Wow. Wow. Wow. That's great. That's
great. Um, last one. What is your
favorite marketing quote?
Oh, I have a couple different favorite
marketing quotes. So, I'm going to give
that to you.
We're gonna give those two. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Here's the feeling.
One, the number one is uh regret is
worse than failure. Okay. Uh whatever it
is that you're thinking about doing,
whether it's business related or life,
just do it because when you're an old
person and you're going to look back on
your life, you are going to be like,
"Oh, I should have done that thing." So,
regret is worse uh than failure. The
other one is uh um perfection is the
enemy of progress. And what I mean by
that is a lot of times in marketing,
everyone's like, "Oh, this is not right.
We got to fix this. It's not perfect
yet. We got to get it all perfect." Just
send it out. Just do it. Because
perfection holds back getting things
done and trying things. So, don't focus
on perfect. Good is the new great. And
just do it.
Just do it like uh um Nike. Exactly. But
what I will also add guys is that um as
if you people follow us, we stalk our
guests a lot. And uh this is a post by
Jay uh 3 days ago. My email rules of
life. Two email rules I live by. When in
doubt, send it out.
When in doubt, up them out. So it's it's
along the line of just getting things
done. And um I would also give credit to
Mark Zuckerberg by who says done is
better than perfect, you know. Um and
the last one you said there in terms of
regrets, h I've been trying to do this
podcast thing since 2018. I literally
had everything in place. Something
happened. I can't remember what. Maybe
it was immigration. I I dumped it out.
So now I'm working at a pace whereby I'm
trying to catch up like it was 2018,
right? We're speaking of the mic in
terms of you know us also reaching a
recording. So very very simple but very
very great uh quote to live by. Okay
back to the topic email automation and
retargeting especially the retargeting
because many people know retargeting is
more common to ads but I feel like there
is more that email marketing can offer
in that regard. um knowing that email
delivers you know
double digit conversion rate you know
when you look at your Google analytics
email is probably at the top when it
comes to conversion rate. So from your
experience what are some of the things
that or the best practices that you
think our listeners can learn from when
they start working through email
automation or email retargeting to get
the best out of their customers or even
out of their prospects.
So email automation is an interesting
thing. So right so somebody goes to a
particular page on your website and an
email will get triggered that will go to
them or somebody visits you know they
open up an email and they get a
follow-up email right or or you have
something timed that they get an email
on this particular day because they did
this that or whatever all these
different email automation triggers and
that's great and that's very very
successful but here's the problem
is that we all are very busy and here's
what we do. We set up these automations.
We say, "Okay, we got this new piece of
content, the 2023,
you know, trends for HR professionals or
whatever it is, right? And we put that
in our automation stream. And then we
move on with our lives. We all get very
busy. And now, fast forward, it's 2020.
It's June 2024.
And we have not really taken a look at
our workflows and our automation
streams, and we're still firing away
these automations.
I like that. Good job.
We're all guilty of it. And you know why
we're guilty of it? Because we are
overly optimistic with how attentive
we're going to be to our automation
streams. So what we need to do as
marketers is get real with ourselves and
we need to have evergreen content. You
need to make sure that whatever you're
putting in those automation streams will
be good today, tomorrow, a year from
now, three years from now because you
don't have the time to go through those
workflows. I don't care how big of an
organization you are. We work with the
biggest companies on the planet and they
all screw this up because you have too
many things firing in too many
directions. And I'll tell you what will
destroy pipeline of any kind, consumer,
B2B.
What will destroy pipeline is old
content. Content that somebody receives
that's dated, right? That has an old
date on it or it's talking about an old
topic. Like if you're firing off
something about the pandemic, which is
probably happening right now in
somebody's automation streams somewhere,
okay, when somebody gets that, they're
like, "This company is not organized.
They're not efficient. They don't know
what they're doing." So evergreen
content in your automation. Get real
with yourself. And that is the secret to
success with automation.
Love it. Love it. Love it. I I aside
from being evergreen, it's good to
check, right? Because there are Let me
give a good example is this. Um and it's
not just automation in email, automation
in general. Um now it's in the US, even
in Canada, there's so much with the
economy. There's a cold recession. We
don't know whether it's recession or
not. That is a good hook to market
anything in this this day and age. And
there will there was a time it was
COVID. There was a time it was there's
always something else that that always
comes up that can help you with the
seasonality or you know always uh uh um
updating updating those uh the content
as it were and making sure is as
relevant as possible. So great wisdom on
that last question. Uh I will not leave
you without asking you to give us any of
the quick tips that you have in your
head. uh starting with subject lines of
course.
Wow.
On how to optimize email marketing in
general. I'm specifically focused on
those that marketers are like they don't
really focus on and at the end of your
answer they want to be like, "Oh, okay.
Interesting."
Yeah, absolutely. I'm glad you asked
that question because there are little
things that marketers can do. Uh let's
talk about the subject line first. you
could do stuff in your subject line that
will radically change the number of
people opening up your email. So, let's
go through some of those. But first
thing, before we can tell you some of
those ideas, I want to dispel a myth.
People think that the reason you go to
the junk folder or the spam folder is
because the words or characters that you
put in your subject line or your body
copy of your email. That was true 10
years ago. 10 years ago, you used to get
filtered, go in the junk folder because
of content, the words and symbols that
you used. Technology has changed. You
don't go to the junk folder because of
content, right? You go to the junk
folder because you have poor sending
reputation from your email
infrastructure and a lack of engagement.
So, the reason I tell you that is if you
go ahead and you Google, you know, spam
trigger words, you're going to find
these lists of words to avoid. And I'm
here to tell you that is old information
that's being regurgitated that's just no
longer true. I want to liberate you.
You can put words like free in your
subject line. It's fine.
In your junk folder.
I love that.
Okay. Uh um and when you go back to your
inbox, look at your own inbox. The
biggest brands will be putting
characters like emojis and exclamation
points and the words free in their
subject line and it's in your inbox.
You're not looking at your junk folder
because it doesn't affect
deliverability. So that's the first
thing. But
little things that work.
I want you to always focus on the start
of your subject line. The first few
characters, the first few words. Nobody
reads the second half. I'll give you
example. If you start your subject line
with a number, just a number, right? The
seven things all small business owners
need to know. The three hottest fashion
trends. When you start your subject line
with a number, it'll increase your open
rate on average by about 15%.
Just start. just because it stands out.
If you capitalize the first word of your
subject line, just that very first word,
okay, it will stand out. It'll actually
lift your open rates, the percentage of
people open your emails by about 10%.
Right? That first few characters is
huge. If you have an emoji, okay,
whether you're a business marketer or
consumer marketer, an emoji to start
your subject line, it will lift your
open rates by over 20%. And some of you
may say, "Emojis are embarrassing. I
shouldn't use them." And that couldn't
be further from the truth. I'll give you
an example. Goldman Sachs, one of the
most, you know, stiff organizations on
the planet. Almost every newsletter
subject line they send out has an emoji
in it. It does, right? Why is that?
Because it stands out. An emoji doesn't
have to be a smiley face. It could be
the symbol of a calendar. It could be a
check mark. It could be anything, right?
Anything that you can do in that subject
line. So when the person is going really
fast their inbox, they stop for that
millisecond and they will see your
subject line is what you want to do. So
yeah, little things big impact.
Yeah, I love that. I love that. Little
things, big impact. I'm so excited. I
can't speak straight. I hear it. Um I
know we can go on and on with this, but
we are at time. Jay, it's been an
awesome honor having you. Great wisdom
uh that you shared with regards to email
marketing. I hope that you know uh
listeners are taking away a lot of great
things that they can start to act with
now now. Anyway, um where can future
email marketers find you?
Well, first of all, please connect with
me on LinkedIn. I share stuff all the
time. I love connect on LinkedIn. So,
find me on LinkedIn. Please do that. Uh
I also have a podcast and love for you
to give it a try. You can go to this
of marketing podcast. The goat.
There it is. Oh, it's on the screen.
There you go. It's my full name.
Thanks, Brian. If you just go to my
fullname.com,
uh, jswedlesson.com, you'll find the
podcast there. And we're always sharing
new stuff. So, please give it a try.
And, uh, yeah, that's the best way to
find me.
Yeah, that that's great. That's great.
Thank you, Brian, for for sharing that.
Brian is always awesome at the back
there. Uh, you guys don't see him, but
uh, sometimes you hear it. Anyway, u
guys, that's all we have for today. Uh,
more episodes are available on
doslovesmarketing.com.
Uh, don't forget to subscribe to the
marketing leadership podcast on Apple,
Spotify, and YouTube. If you don't want
to go through the website, that's okay.
I'd like to thank Desri and Content
Allies for their support. And also
special thanks to Jay uh for everything
uh that he's been doing for the world
and even, you know, coming here to be on
this podcast. Till next time, connect
the dots. Thank
everybody. Appreciate you.
Thank you for listening to the marketing
leadership podcast brought to you by
Listen Network. There will be links to
resources mentioned in today's show
notes. If you enjoyed this episode,
please leave a fivestar review and be
sure to subscribe so you never miss an
episode.
[Music]
