Welcome to the making sense of martekch
podcast where we interview leaders and
put them in the hot seat. I'm Jacine
Freriedman, founder of Monarch and
global head of advisory for Mart weekly.
Let's dive in and meet Lauren Meyer, the
chief marketing officer at Socket Labs.
A little bit about her first. With a
background in deliverability,
anti-abuse, and email strategy, she has
built a reputation of transforming
complex email data into clear,
actionable insights. as the former vice
chair at Mong and the voice behind Send
It Right. She champions consent based
marketing and prioritizes trust and
transparency. Welcome, Lauren.
>> Welcome. Thank you very much for having
me. It's nice to be here. I do champion
all those things you mentioned. Woohoo.
Let's go.
>> Awesome. Well, to start us off, we'll
begin with a few quick questions to fire
things up like a good IP warming. So,
first and foremost, what is the first
Martekch tool you've ever used in your
career? Okay, so I don't know if access
counts, but I used to do a lot of access
database work in my first email job
because I was processing like
suppression files for a whole bunch of
companies. But let's move on to other
things like I, you know, I worked in
affiliate marketing space. So the
company I worked for was using
simultaneously get response, mail, mad
mimi, vertical response, like basically
any ESP that kind of existed back in
2007. So yeah, I got to use all of them.
It was
>> slim pickins then compared to today.
That's for sure. All right. What is one
marketing buzzword you wish you could
ban forever?
>> It would have to be the blast. It is
just so aggressive. I just, you know,
it's one of those like first email
provider that I was using for my send it
right newsletter used to call it a blast
and they've actually changed that to
something that's much more positive now.
So, it's one of those like I feel really
good about that. Like kudos to you guys
who did it right.
>> Are we going to just announce who made a
change for the better?
>> Squarespace is
>> good job Squarespace. Good for them. I'm
glad they did the right thing.
>> Okay. What is the biggest marketing
mistake or mess up you've witnessed or
done yourself?
>> Okay. Well, thankfully it wasn't my
mistake, but when I was working for a
past ESP as like the head of
deliverability, I was dealing with the
aftermath of one of our customers who
had just transitioned from their past
ESP. And without them knowing it, that
past ESP had been like automatically
handling their suppression files and all
the the people that, you know, were
complaining and unsubscribing for the
entire time they were there. And I think
you know where this is going. So once
they transitioned, they didn't download
and apply that suppression file to their
contact list. So on their first send
through us, they generated a little more
than like I think like 3,000 spam
complaints. And it was such a massive
number like on like, you know, 200,000,
you know, contacts that they're sending
to that they didn't believe it, right?
Like they were like, "This must be a
reporting issue. This must be you. This
must be something you're doing." And
we're like, and even I was like a guy
like this is wrong. This can't be right.
Lo and behold, it was correct. It's just
that, you know, those real complaints
were coming from people who had been
suppressed in some cases, you know,
hadn't been mailed to in like more than
two years. And some of them were spam
complainers. So really, really painful,
right?
>> Makes me very glad whenever someone asks
for kind of quick migration advice. My
first thing is back up your unsubscribed
list no matter what.
>> The only thing that's potentially even
more important than your actual contact
list that you're sending to, right?
>> Without a doubt. Oh man, that is like
giving me heart palpitations thinking
about it.
Okay. So, what is one tool you cannot
live without as a deliverability first
marketer?
>> Okay. Fine. Right. And I think um a lot
of times people are going to probably go
to like Google Postmaster tools, which
is very important. Everyone should be
signing up for that. But my favorite one
is about my email. So, it's actually you
can go to it at about my email. That's
the email that would be the website
address. This is something that was
created by Steve Atkins from Word to the
Wise. And it just it kind of gives you
that like immediate reality check on
your email configuration. And it was,
you know, it's built by Steve who is a
very technical person. He's smart. I
trust him to like kind of understand
compliance and all the nuances of those
different mailbox providers. And Marcel
Becker from Yahoo. He's the postmaster
there actually previously said like if
it passes about my email, it's very
likely compliant with Yahoo. Right. So I
think any large scale sender who's ever
had an issue should plug it in. You
know, you just add it to your contact
list. It's just it makes you feel good.
Yeah. So check it out.
>> I love a free tool that is, you know,
approved by the Postmasters. That's all
you can ask for.
>> You don't get that stamp of approval
very often. Yeah,
>> exactly. All right, last rapid fire
question you ask everyone. Yeah.
>> Who is someone you admire, whether it's
professionally or personally?
>> All right. Well, I'm going to go with
Jennifer Nispolance, who is within the
email industry. Hopefully, you know, a
bunch of you know her. She's currently
working at Kickbox. She's got this like
sense of calm and she's patient with
customers and with everybody else. She
cares a lot about her role and the
responsibility of like doing right by
email and like working in anti-abuse and
like when we go to conferences, she's
that person that you know, she's a great
moderator, she's a great speaker, but
she also just asks these questions, you
know, just coming from this place of
like curiosity and it's like one of
those where you're like, man, like I
kind of barely understand that question
that you're asking because you
understand the technical nuance of
everything, right? She kind of, not to
say she doesn't care what people think,
I'm sure she does, but she just has this
kind of attitude that's just funloving
and she's a big person to be around. So
>> yes, and she is excellent at moderating
panels. I saw her at Inbox Expo just
kill it.
>> She's just hilarious too, right? She
always works in some comedies, which is
just my favorite thing.
>> Hard to do. It is very much so.
>> All right, to set the stage a bit a
little bit about you. So beginning in
email in 2006 after pivoting from
finance, you fell straight into
deliverability and never looked back.
Now as a CMO, which transition
throughout your career challenged you
the most? Yeah, you know, and I think
know obviously there's a lot of
challenges in marketing in any role
really that you're in when you're
working in like a SAS company, but you
know, I just I spent so many years like
staying in my lane, you know, like
fighting for deliverability, pushing for
best practices, playing like the
compliance cop or like the Debbie
Downer, right? Like you're never really
in the company money. You're always kind
of burning people. When you're in
deliverability, you're usually just
called in after something's gone wrong.
And so you dig into the data, you find
the thing that's broken, you fix it, and
boom, like measurable outcome,
everybody's happy, right? But in
marketing it's like a whole different
ball game where you know I wasn't
prepared I guess for like how subjective
or maybe like how squishy it is. Like
you rarely get that kind of data
backarity like you know everybody has an
opinion and suddenly you're just you're
kind of like the one who's like pitching
these ideas. you know, attribution is a
mess, particularly when you know, just
it takes dozens of touch points and
repetition and emotional contacts and
trust building, like all of these things
maybe to get somebody to care and then
eventually for sales to do their thing,
right? Like we have all this evidence
that proves that people don't approach
brands until they're basically kind of
ready to buy. Like they've done most of
their research and they just kind of
need you to not screw it up, but like
you need to get on that list. Like you
need to be in the realm where they
understand you, right? And I think it it
just it took me way too long to realize
the fact that I really need to like
advocate just as hard for marketing
within my own company, right? Like it's
just you're asking these people to kind
of like trust this narrative that you're
building and maybe they don't agree with
it or they don't really get it. You just
don't get those like aha it's broken.
Like that's it's just so easy for that
mental shift from like fixing problems
to kind of just living in this gray area
all the time. I think has has just been
been really kind of a you know a hard
corner to turn. And I think it's like I
still kind of suck at it to be honest.
And you know, it's like if you're old
enough to have seen Zoolander, just
maybe like I'm just have a hard time
turning left. Right.
>> But I'm working on it still.
>> Yeah. It's hard to have quick when when
you're so used to quick fixes and
immediate.
>> Exactly. Yeah. And it's like you really
have to build that foundation. And I
think a lot of times like people in
organizations don't understand
marketing. They're not in marketing and
so they don't get how important it is to
kind of like build those foundational
like your what is your ICP? Who are you
going after? What is your your kind of
your market your audience? You can't
skip that. And I think that's where like
I sort of did because everybody was like
it doesn't matter because nobody was
really a marketer enough to to kind of
know how important that stuff was.
Right. So don't skip it. It's like go
for it.
>> Yes. Don't skimp it. Just like I
wouldn't assume I'm a full stack
engineer, don't assume you're a marketer
just because you consume marketing.
>> Yeah. Right. Like just because you think
that you have a really good name for a
mascot for our company, don't share
that. Maybe.
>> Exactly.
>> So you are an advocate and often talk
about consent based marketing. Should
every marketer what's the most
misunderstood myth about this growth?
>> You know, I do talk about consent, but I
think there's a big difference between
like consent and attention. Like you
still have to earn the attention. Like I
feel like there's a lot of marketers
today that are still kind of operating
under this assumption that once you get
someone gives you their email address,
you're golden, right? Like cool, let's
just go. This is great. We've got their
consent. We can do what we want.
>> That's just the beginning of the
relationship. It's almost like you're
just having like this handshake with
someone, right? And I think the real
challenge that we need to be focusing on
is not the consent, it's staying
relevant. It's staying memorable and not
becoming kind of like this like this
buzzing fly that's sort of just in their
face within their inbox, right? And I
think, you know, the bar has been set
higher now that people are drowning in
so much technology and so much noise and
so much AI. So, you know, I think it's
just you have to move beyond, you know,
did they opt in? I think it's more like
why did they opt in? What did we promise
to them? Are we delivering on that
promise in a way that's actually worthy
of their time, not, you know, just
benefiting us? So, I think we really
just need to get like a little bit
creative with the way that we get
attention from folks. And, you know,
like Gmail now is offering that
subscription management center, right?
So, users can see how often brands are
emailing them. And they can also check
out the content that they're getting.
So, like in a split second, within a
couple clicks, they can decide if you're
welcome in their inbox anymore or not.
And then the unsubscribe button is right
there, too. So, I think it's just it's
not about consent. It's really about
everything that comes after that, right?
Like, are they going to shake your hand
and then become your friend or just kind
of be like that guy's weird fishy
handshake, right? So, I think, you know,
you want them to feel good about your
brand. And I think that's something that
people often forget, especially when you
have those very large lists and you
start to see just the numbers and not
remember the specific people that are
behind those email addresses.
>> Agreed. So, what I'm hearing is one
setting expectations both for your own
internal team, but also the customer.
Mhm.
>> But also in addition actually providing
something of value to them as opposed to
value to you as a business.
>> Yes. For sure. Right. Like put them
first. Like it's not just like a a way
to say it. It's not just meeting up your
like book practices. Like it really is
actually how you succeed. How you build
like loyal followers as opposed to like
just people that are like I get this in
my inbox. Maybe I'll look for a sale.
>> So you've risen now to executive
leadership. with this experience under
your belt, how do you level set with
brand side and teams thinking through
consent?
>> Yeah. So, I think, you know, this is one
of those where like I feel lucky for the
fact that I've actually spent like most
of my career in the trenches. And so, I
get to, you know, kind of look back on
that and remember all the pain that I
felt along the way as that practitioner.
But I also try to stay like really close
with the people in my own company who do
talk to our customers, right? We're just
we're talking about their customer use
cases, weird bugs that they're facing.
So we have to figure out like oh it's
not just like do we have good tech it's
what's your experience like what happens
when we actually help you if we do help
you right so I think those kind of
conversations help me stay grounded so
that I'm like kind of speaking from a
place of reality not just theory or
things that I knew a couple of years ago
and then I also like I host these these
virtual roundts at socket lab it really
like anytime you can join like sessions
where you're in a room with other people
who sit in your seat or who are like
close to your seat I think it just it
gives you that chance to kind of jam out
with other people and really just come
up with some good ideas and these for
all people that are living in the weeds
and like dying to help and dying to like
be helped and have ideas. So, I think
it's just having all of that kind of
awareness around me really just helps me
like continue to understand what
challenges they're facing. And I think
got to kind of think about the fact that
it's not just like, oh, you got to
follow the best practice. It really is
like what are the bandwidth issues,
right? Like who's on maternity leave,
who's out sick, who's on vacation for 3
weeks because they went to Europe. Like
there's all these things that you're
doing. You're chasing approvals. You
know, you've got these unclear briefs
that kind of just get twisted in
translation. Like there's just there's
all these things that marketers are
dealing with and understanding that
bandwidth really just like it's not
infinite. Like there is a line there are
places where momentum stalls or
leadership just changes their mind and
shifts gears and goes in a different
direction and all of a sudden your top
priority project is just like never mind
like we're not even doing that. So like
I think sort of being aware of that and
being aware of like the constraints that
marketers live in from a technology
perspective, you know, just trying to
give people that empathy and come at
solutions from a place of creativity,
right? Like it's not just like here's
what you do. It's like, okay, well
here's what you could do. Here's another
way that you could do that based on what
you've told me about the way that your
technology works or your business model
works. I don't think this is going to
work for you. So here's another option
or like throw it to them and let them
kind of just figure it out based on the
proper amount of context that you're
giving them. let them understand the
issue but not from like start talking
about SMTP protocols.
>> It's so much more fun to
>> Yeah, it is. But only if the person's
nerding out with you, I think, right?
>> Yes. Well, speaking of nerding out,
email marketing is often treated kind of
like plumbing. Essential, but
underfunded, not very sexy, not very
interesting. How did you fight for email
seat at the strategy table? Yeah. So, I
think one of the best ways that I've
seen people win here, especially on that
memory brand marketer side, is by
running small proof of concept tests and
actually somebody from a massive brand
joined one of our roundts recently and
was just talking about this of just like
you know if you can show the thing that
you're asking for is already showing
traction even at like a really small
scale like this company has multiple
global regions and kind of subsidiaries.
So like if you can just test with one of
those and see some success that could be
the thing that you need to kind of prove
this out, right? Like maybe it's as
simple as like even just testing
messaging on LinkedIn and then turning
that into like the basis for an email
campaign as your best performing
content. It's just like you're bringing
data to the table and you're not asking
for like a huge budget up front. you're
just saying like look we did this thing
with duct tape or with you know limited
resources and it worked and it's
something we should try to pursue like
now imagine what we could do with proper
support behind this right so I think
it's email doesn't just look strategic
and you know because you have to connect
it to like the business goals right like
I think often times there's just this
huge disconnect between the two and so
kind of getting into the minds of
executives like they aren't ignoring
email because they don't care they're
ignoring it because they don't
understand it you know they don't really
get how it connects to their goals
because nobody's told them like for
marketers, we're so busy marketing
externally that we forget about
explaining this stuff internally. So
like I think trying to get into those
mindsets of like are they trying to just
get leads to grow revenue? Are they
trying to get acquired? Is there a big
partnership move in the works that you
can get involved in? Like how can you
tie your email program to those things
that matter? So it doesn't just feel
like plumbing, right? It's not just
running in the background. It actually
is something that is going to drive
business impact. So I think that's yeah
start the marketing internally because
you know as much as I wish it was your
job is not just doing email it's
translating that value into something
that's going to get you buy in. That's
really good.
>> Yeah translating and I imagine your
finance background helps a little bit
with some of that translation too.
>> You know you would think so but I
actually used to fall asleep every time
I did my like series 7 study. So like I
just Yeah. I was like this isn't for me.
I think I need something.
>> Fair enough. If there's one theme that's
followed me at every stop in my martekch
career, it's trying to get good data
into the hands of marketers. That's why
I'm so excited to tell you about our
sponsor, Hightouch, a leading composable
CDP and AI decisioning platform.
Companies like Domino's, Chime, Aritzia,
and PetSmart trust Hightouch to power
their data. And here's the kicker. 90%
of customers have a real use case live
in production within their first week.
That means you can implement a
world-class CDP in months rather than
the usual yearslong headache. That's why
top brands choose hightouch to
personalize every customer interaction
at scale. See what hight touch can do
for you at hightouch.com/ms.
>> All right, shifting gears a little bit
to talk a little bit more about the
techie side. You've previously said, and
I think everyone should know this by
now, but they don't, ad data is the root
cause of mobility issues. How should
marketers rethink data hygiene both at
signup and for the long term? And how
does your advice change from B2B to BTOC
clients? Yeah. So, I think I mean, you
know, across the board like everyone
needs to get permission if possible.
Like, you know, I know some of you can
still send cold emails, so like I'm not
going to speak to you and give you
ideas, but like you should be speaking
to people who are going to receive that
email well, who hopefully like are
expecting to receive it. So, I think
that's for everybody, but you know, I
think more specific to B2B, like you are
going to probably see like a higher
churn rate on the email addresses. You
know, people are switching jobs, so
those email addresses go dark. So, let's
say if you're only mailing quarterly or
if you've just got like this one big
push that you do every year, like you're
kind of setting yourself up for a lot of
hard bounces that potentially could lead
to deliverability issues. You know, I
think it's if you're sending more
consistently, what you'll see is that
those inactive addresses kind of get
phased out like a little bit more
organically and they look more normal,
right? The rates don't really spike up
that one time you send a year. So, I
think it's it really helps you kind of
just like, you know, meter that out. So
I think just you know give people the
option to sign up with their personal
email address as well. I think that's
the other thing is you know within B2B
we're so focused on like knowing the
company that they work for so sales has
a lead to chase but like people do
switch jobs and so I think at that point
you've lost the thread. Like that's the
end of your story with them. Right? If
you choose to provide them with the
ability to have like a Gmail or a hot
mail address, not only are you serving
people who maybe don't have a job right
now who might get a job and be working
for a company that you're trying to
actually reach or something like that,
but if they're choosing to give you that
personal Gmail address or hotmail
address, it's actually like a really
strong signal that the content that
you're sending actually matters to them
enough to kind of allow you into that
personal space. And I think it it kind
of helps keep that relationship alive if
they pop up in another company because
you've already kind of you just stayed
present in their life instead of waiting
for them to kind of to reopt in with
their new email address. I think the
other difference probably is engagement
looks different. Really low opens
because a lot of B2B filters don't
preload those images, right? Like my
Socket Labs inbox, our IT team has
turned them off by default. So even if
I've read your email, you're not going
to know that, right? Other mailbox
providers or filters, they open into
basically everything. So you're going to
think that you're open to great and
you're like, "Oh my gosh, we have such
high engagement." And you don't. So I
think it's don't really obsess over your
engagement rates, particularly in B2B,
because those mailbox provider filters,
those, you know, third party filters are
much more focused on your bounce rates.
How high is your spam complaint rate?
And is your authentication and your
configuration correct? So pay more
attention to that kind of stuff, right?
Are you triggering blocks at proof
point? Other places.
>> That makes sense. And kind of gearing
into what socket labs is building, it's
around insight driven infrastructure. I
have a question outside of us nerdy
folks who like to know these details. Is
there a risk in giving marketers too
much data without the skill to actually
interpret it?
>> Yes, absolutely. Like I couldn't agree
with anything more probably in the
world. Like I have seen so many
marketers who are just drowning in
dashboards who have like the most
expensive tools on the market and they
admit like I don't really understand a
lot of that stuff. So I really just kind
of see on the dashboard like that
actually tends to be enough for a lot of
people until you have an issue or until
you've got a lot of complexity. Like you
just see all these graphs and metrics
but you don't know what they mean. So
you know just it gets lost right and
then you have this paralysis and you're
kind of chasing false assumptions and
there's just all this noise that's
happening. So I think you know it's a
real question that we're trying to solve
is like you know what decision is this
data actually helping me make right? If
it's not actionable what's the point of
telling you it's not helping you with
anything. it's just giving you stress or
confusion, right? So, we're trying to
simplify things by really directing
customers to like where the problem
lives first. So, it kind of like, you
know, it's bucketed into a couple of
different issues like maybe it's
engagement or list hygiene or it's your
authentication, things like that. So,
that you can kind of jump past that
initial question of like what's wrong
when you're just shaking and sweating,
right? And just jump right into like the
problemolving mode, you know, really
just give proper context to people so
that they can focus on what matters. And
I think this is like a great place where
AI can actually shine like not just as a
content generator like it is now but
really you know moving beyond even just
like data aggregation but just like what
is the way that we can make this easier
for people to make decisions and then
take action on those decisions right so
imagine if you could say like why did my
bounce rate spike this week or why did I
get blacklisted and it gives you an
answer and then it says here would you
like to create a rule within your
configuration that helps you bypass this
issue next time or separates the traffic
because it was based on this thing like
so that's where we're going like we're
not there yet, but I think that's the
dream, right? Like that's where we're
headed and focusing on.
>> That's exciting. And I love that you
really honed in on certain marketers
that to most would be in the most
luxurious, most advanced place. You've
got all the dashboards, which is in of
itself a feat. But if you could ban any
metric from a dashboard, what would it
be? So much power. What do I do?
Honestly, this is like the easiest
question. It's the inbox footprint rate.
Like, you know, people put so much
gospel into this rate and it's the first
thing I hear. It's not like my delivery
rate is 98%, it's my inbox rate is 99%.
So I don't understand there shouldn't be
a problem. And I think it's really
important for people to understand, and
a lot of people don't understand this,
that those inbox placement rates tend to
be based on seed testing where the
vendor basically just like adds a bunch
of fake Gmail addresses and Yahoo
addresses, let's say like 20 of each of
all these different mailbox providers,
and then they just track where your mail
lands, right? But the problem is those
addresses are are robots essentially,
right? They're not opening, clicking,
and and kind of like engaging the dermal
box the way that you do, right? They're
not opening that one email 15 times and
then moving it to a folder and then
forwarding it to a friend and then
another one you open once, but then like
you don't like you're doing all these
kind of weird things within your inbox.
And mailbox providers can see that,
right? Like they have this kind of data,
so they can tell the difference. They
know the difference between a seed test
and a real human. So even if you know,
Bobby robot one two three at Gmail goes
to the inbox, it doesn't mean that my
production list is actually going to the
inbox, right? And I've seen so many
people just panic because their inbox
rate tank even though nothing actually
changed in their real life metrics when
you look at their opens and their clicks
and their delivery rates and things,
right? It was just the seeds which were
wacky, right? At the same time, I've
seen people that totally ignore
deliverability issues when those do pop
up because the seed test said that
everything was fine or because they're
just they're so tired of chasing past
false positives that now they're burned.
They're like, "No, I'm not chasing that
one. Like, forget it. It's obviously not
real. It's fine." Right? So I think it's
remembered that the inbox rate is not
real. It's not driven by data that's
coming from the mailbox providers who
know what actually went to the inbox and
it's not driven by recipients. Not yet
anyway. Like they don't have that that
information. So it's just creating this
false sense of competence or false
alarm. That's just it's dangerous. So
like let's just ban the word inbox
placement until we know that it's real.
Okay. Right. And just be careful with
your seat tests.
>> I love that. And the market is full of
vendors promising us the inbox
placement. How you one obviously it'd be
nice if we could ban it from every
dashboard but how can buyers and
customers really distinguish between a
signal and sales fin.
>> Yeah. Well, I think it's you know top of
the mountain I would say like if anyone
ever guarantees inbox placement or
really kind of anything within email run
because like you know the only thing
they can guarantee is when it doesn't
work they'll give you your money back
like they can't guarantee what goes to
the
>> only have a good service level agreement
in place with you that you've
negotiated.
>> Right. Yes. Exactly. So no, I think
that's obviously the fastest the biggest
red flag out there. But what a vendor
can do, I think, is you explain your
risks when you're migrating, when you're
doing certain actions within your
day-to-day kind of, you know, program if
they're helping you fix problems like do
you reach out and you get a response
from a human? Do you get a response via
Slack or a ticket? Do you get a response
from AI? Because I've heard that there
are huge companies in our industry who
laid off other people and now are just
using AI responses for everything you
know. So, it's like, you know, you can
have that kind of support or you could
actually talk to a human. So, like, what
kind of experience do you need based on
your experience level and kind of the
things that you're good at and the
things you think you're going to need
help with? And then, of course, like you
need to have the tooling to get the job
done, right? And to make those smarter
choices as well. And I think we've got a
couple of those pieces within most ESPs,
but especially when it comes to making
smarter choices and like being like,
"Oh, I have an idea. I should do this."
And then actually doing it, I think is
is really hard. This is where I think
support matters a whole lot because they
can walk you through this stuff, right?
If you could have the fanciest platform
in the world, but if it breaks and you
don't know how to fix it, like you're
toast, right? That's the end of it. So,
I think it's just, you know, ask them
not just about the tech, but like who
will be there? Who am I actually going
to be talking to when the send fails,
when the bounce is super vague and I
don't know what to do, or when the IPs
are blacklisted, right? Like we have
people like Brian Godson, one of the
most talented deliverability people I've
ever met, who's the person who's your
tickets versus some of this other stuff.
So I think that's the real
differentiator. But just do your due
diligence, right? Like whatever ESP is
best for me probably not best for you.
It just depends on our goals are super
important.
>> Yeah. To overlay what you said in
particular, I consider customer support
success as a product in and of itself.
And if you are not actively, and this is
any vendor, not just deliverability or
ESPs. For me, that's one of the most
important building blocks. Uh will this
vendor work for my needs? What is the
remediation plan and approach? Do they
blame the customer? I've come across
that before and so I'm a huge proponent
of really digging deep with the customer
support, customer success tiers and also
current customers and when things went
wrong asking them what happened.
>> Totally. I love that. Yeah. I think it's
tough like as a marketer like you can't
really shout about your customer success
because everyone does, right? Like
everyone's like we have the best support
ever, you know? So like it no one really
believed but there are ways if you dig
if you poke at that question a little
bit you will get answers that give you a
good sense of like what the real reality
is going to be.
>> Yes. And pro tip if anyone says they
have an award for their customer support
success look to see if it's paid for.
Just putting that out there.
>> A big marketing budget not a big support
team. Right.
>> Correct. All right. So taking a step
back and thinking about the industry at
large when finally Apple their mail
privacy protection and shifting inbox
tabs has finally caught up with Gmail 10
years later. How should marketers rely
less on opens and more on meaningful
engagement?
>> Yeah. And it's funny because like, you
know, I feel like male privacy
protection really just put thought on
the fact that opens are not a very
reliable metric. So, it's just kind of
like, yeah, okay, cool. And like, so now
it's almost become trendy to like dunk
on open rates and just say like they're
noisy. They're just trash. But despite
the noise, like bots, there's image
preloading, there's privacy changes that
are happening, like they all are going
to mess with your numbers. And that's
true of click well. That's even true of
conversions. Like attribution is messy.
So open rates in my mind, especially
when it comes to deliverability, are
still very useful if you use them
directionally, right? Like open pixels
don't get triggered when mail's going to
the spam folder. So figure if you've got
like open rates that are typically 40%
and that drops to like 6% with Hotmail.
You know that you probably have a spam
folder issue as opposed to just like as
soon as fast of an email, right? So I
think it there's ways for you to kind of
like look at that data and just, you
know, over time as far back as you can
go and say, are we just trending
downwards? Is there something we can do
with that? Is this a list collection
issue where we're bringing in people
that are less engaged? Is this just that
our content is the same thing all the
time? Like what is the problem? But I
think open rates are part of the story
to tell that. But then I think it's, you
know, how can you track other metrics
downstream but more reliably perhaps
like clicks again faulty as well oftent
times inflated and things like that. But
what about conversions? Like what about
replies? Is there a way that you can
like insert a poll into your email that
kind of like, you know, has a different
kind of engagement that lets you know
maybe it's, you know, it's from a real
person? Even just like website visits,
right? If you're in like direct to
consumer and you get purchases directly
from email, like when you hit send at at
10:15 a.m., do you see a little bit of a
surge on the website and a little bit of
surge in revenue? Like those are things
that you can track more reliably and
trace them back to email a little bit.
But yeah, you really kind of have to get
creative and and just find ways to like
build your email content to drive other
types of engagement that would be like
more trackable, more meaningful activity
that you can kind of trust a little bit
more, right? Like you know, at the same
time, I think just remember that
engagement really isn't the end all
beall. Like there is a lot of stuff that
happens downstream, but also like
sometimes even your best readers are
just not going to open. They're not
going to click. Maybe they read the
subject line, maybe they see your brand
name. It still helps. So I think it's
like look beyond the metrics and just
try to track behavior across like all of
these different touch points if you can.
>> You make it sound so easy.
>> I got one eye.
>> I'm in full agreement ever more with
vanity metrics or just signals. Use them
directionally to understand where to go
and that's it. Nothing more, nothing
less
>> in advertising and just not have that
signal at all. So like it's not as bad
as nothing. Use it properly. Right.
Responsibly.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Speaking of
responsibility, AI is just everywhere
and sending email, everything is just
still very manual. No matter how many
companies tout AI, where do you see AI
incrementally rearranging email
marketing tooling or how use email? We
haven't really seen major platform
shifts yet that went from I am coding in
Dreamweaver or NB free in my white label
Wizzywig.
>> For sure. it feels like we had just kind
of that wave of like oh I can build this
thing and it's like I can be the first
to market or it's just it's like the
easiest thing that they could build and
they're kind of just getting their feet
wet with AI. So I think that's kind of
where like a lot of those like
generative content sort of things came
from. I have seen a couple of other ones
that get deeper into like segmentation
or things like that. But I think the the
problem that I see today is just that a
lot of these tools like they're not it's
not based on data enough. It's not in
like you said it's not integrated into
your workflow. It's just it's very
generalized data. They don't understand
your audience. So, I think usually what
you would get from those kind of like
more like data driven results is is just
kind of like me. It just it's not really
good enough. It might pass the test a
little bit, but it's not really point
for your audience. So, I think that's
where like you're going to fall into
that sea of sness and never really kind
of get past it. So, I think you know the
next wave that I see like the next kind
of iteration is going to be starting to
use the data more responsibly, right?
like you know mailbox providers, ESPs,
everybody's been using like machine
learning data for like years and years,
10 years, 20 years, right? Like they've
had this and I think now it's just like
you have to figure out how to get the
data structure and all of the context
into an AI so that you could sit it on
top of your data and say tell me this,
do this, do that. But if the data is
trash or if it's just not organized in a
good way and you're not kind of, you
know, giving right prompts and adding a
ton of context and then, you know,
factchecking that context and all these
things, it's going to be trash. So, I
think it's just a matter of we're going
to see some tools come out and we need
to kick the tires and make sure that
those actually like those results are
real and those make sense and they're
kind of helping us achieve our goals.
But like we'll eventually get to where
and this is what we're building is just
really using our email people to like
build something that is very data
driven, very email data driven and it's
factoring in all these things and
there's waitings but doing it very
incrementally, very slowly and not
releasing it until we're right. So, I
think, you know, it's just we're going
to see less people just being like, "Oh,
like write my newsletter and populate
the images." Like, I think it it really
is going to be more
>> like, "Help me keep my system from like
blowing up. Oh, like help me diagnose
this problem." And so, like, AI could
become that real co-pilot, but I don't
think it can replace a lot of the work.
There's just spaghetti all over the
place, right? Like there's this system
over here and it doesn't talk to that
system. So, there's a human that kind of
needs to be that delivery person between
all this stuff and and make it work.
>> Agreed. And speaking of kind of trash,
maybe taking out the trash in that
regard, cleaning up. You've been
obviously very vocal about consent and
cleaning list practices. What is your
take on brands who are still buying
lists in the year of 2025? Are they
delusional? They desperate or that's
completely dysfunctional.
>> I honestly think it's probably all of
the above, a mixture of all of the
above. There was a marketer who worked
for my company a couple of years ago who
was like, "Everybody buys lists." Like
he told me that when I put that info
blog post of like, "You need to not be
buying lists. You need to get
permission." and he was like, "That's
just the most boring old advice ever."
And I'm like, "But it's the most
important, right?" Like, it still
matters. Just because people are doing
something doesn't mean that it's the
right thing to do for your business
because it's, you know, email is a
relationship channel. Like, unless you
are just getting to get revenue directly
from one email and you don't care about
ever connecting with that person again,
you need to like, you know, kind of like
nourish those relationships just like
you do in real life, right? So, if
you're desperate to hit a number, if
you're delusional about what list
quality even means or how you get it, if
you've got like these internal processes
or like these internal pushes from
leadership that are just they're making
it feel like buying is easier than
building, right? Like I've heard from
past marketers working for another ESP.
They're like, you made this hard. I'm
like, yeah, yeah, it is like it's super
hard, right? But like you have to have a
career to do it.
>> Exactly. Right. And it's like you just I
get it. I get the pressure, but you also
need to realize like what is happening
downstream of that. Like sure, you cut
the corner, but then you got a ticket
and you were late to your thing anyway
because the police stopped you and sat
there for 15 minutes, right? So, like,
you know, it's really important to do
right by recipients. And I think, you
know, it's just if you're going to buy a
list, like honestly, just I don't know,
use it for data. Use it to try to get
information on your ICP and learn like
what are their roles? like what other
data do you have on them that tell you
like make out who that person is so that
you can speak to them better and segment
them better and hopefully if you're
doing cold email make an outreach that
actually helps them or isn't boring
>> there is no such thing I do appreciate
the formographic approach I do see value
maybe not on the concept of list of
buying but better segmentation
understanding this is very B2B but like
branding and who is within your ICP and
who you can want to talk to so there is
value as long as it's not used for PII
and bad purposes
Yeah, it's just I mean AI has made it so
easy to just like spray and prey now and
they think that they're being smart with
these templates, but like you see the
same stuff all the time now. So, it's
like you really just you need to have
done your research. You need to have
like some sort of angle that resonates
with that person or that business. Like
you can't just like throw it out and
hope for the best, right?
>> It's just it's a different world now.
Truly,
>> for sure. Do you think AI will ever be
able to think like a deliverability
expert? Always going to be part science,
part human art? Because I think
everyone's always just like there's only
one answer when in reality it's actually
probably like 20 different variables
that you have to tinker with.
>> Yeah, for sure. And I think that's where
like you know AI can help but I don't
think it can replace deliverability
people like the human nuance that goes
into like all of you know there's there
are hundreds probably thousands of
different mailbox providers that all
have their own bounce codes and they're
not following like the standards and all
these things, right? And so there's this
like tribal historical knowledge that's
been kind of gathered over the past 30
years that people been sent email and
you know it's shared in Slack channels
and list serves and like these
behindthe-scenes places and then it's
added to somebody's dock and shared when
someone's like help me I have a problem
right so I think it's you know AI would
be good at like the anomaly detection
like helping you track the trends
helping you realize when something's off
but from there I think just it will take
so much work to add the proper context
to that AI model to be able to catch all
the edge cases, right? So, I think it
can help with like the general stuff,
right? Like if you're a deliverability
person that is just saying like segment
your your list to 90day active, like if
you're giving that same stale advice,
you're not going to have a job. Like I
think you really need to kind of lean
into more like this is what AI can do.
This is how far it gets it now. I need
to be better. I need to be understanding
a little bit more of the technical
aspects of like how these things are set
up, how they connect to your
infrastructure, like going deeper into
that part or going deeper into like the
strategic aspects and the creative part,
you know, understanding your ICP, right?
like you could talk to customers, your
AI could, but like you are the one who's
going to get better, more human feedback
from them, right? So, I think it just
we're all just really throwing spaghetti
at the wall and it's really messy and I
think it's going to continue to be messy
as it evolves. So, how does AI keep up
with that? Unless you have people that
are keeping up with it themselves and
training it, right?
>> Yeah. I see AI a lot as the difference
between going to see the doctor and
going to get over-the-counter
prescription medication. like, you know
what, I've got a fever, but it is not so
high that I need to immediately go to
hospital and see if there's something
more versus I've got a low-grade fever.
I just need to sleep and take some meds
to help me get through this.
>> For sure. Always still need that doctor
if something is well beyond the easy
things that you can kind of try the
symptomatic things versus there might be
a diagnosis here and we need to really
understand systemically what's going on.
Yeah,
>> there's the diagnostics and then there's
like you said though, the science or the
art.
>> Exactly. It's you got to have both if
you're going to be a good doctor. That's
for sure.
>> All right. Our last question we ask
everyone, who is someone we should have
on the podcast and we cut out.
>> Okay. Well, yeah. I mean, I think um the
one that came to mind immediately is
>> Christia Esparza. I don't know if you're
familiar with her. She works at
>> Yeah. So, she's like historically been
in deliverability. She worked for like a
you know, Twilio. She worked for I think
vertical response and like a bunch of
different ESGs. and she's like a people
manager now with Claio she's kind of
sitting between deliverability product
and operations so like her role is more
technical but it's funny it's like she's
just like the glue like I feel like
she's like the mama bear of all the
ladies like when we get together at
conferences like she's yeah she's great
she listens she's thoughtful she has a
way of speaking about her and she just
she wants to bring other women with her
as well like her you know one someone
asked her once I was like what do you do
to help women or whatever and she was
like anytime I move up I immediately
like look behind me and grab another
person and pull them up too and it's
like that's just that's how it needs to
Right. So, yeah. So, and she's just
interesting to talk to. So, yeah.
>> Well, would love an introduction.
>> Okay. Happy to do it. Yeah.
>> And on that note, thank you so much for
being on the pod.
>> Thanks for having me. Yeah, it was
really fun chatting.
>> Where can folks find you?
>> Well, that's a good question. So, I do
have a website, send-it-write.com,
and that's where you can sign up for my
newsletter or just kind of read the blog
and kind of pal around, find some good
experts that you should follow. I'm also
on LinkedIn. I'm pretty active over
there, and I post a lot just like, you
know, general best practices, but
getting way deeper into it. So connect
with me, come have a chat. I also offer
20 minute consulting stuff because I
love to just jam out with people. So if
you want to just kind of chat again, go
to my website and sign up. Perfect.
>> All right. Thanks so much.
>> Thank you.
[Music]
